Object Store High Availability (#10)
ray-project/enhancements: reps/2022-04-21-object_store_HA.md

#### Problem 2: Object Borrower Failure

In the chained object borrowing case, the owner of an object is not aware of the indirect borrowers. If all direct borrower fails, the owner will consider the object out-of-scope and GC the object. Accessing the object on indirect borrowers will fail with an `ObjectLostError`.

more details: [issues 18456](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/issues/18456)

#### Problem 3: Loss of All Copies

Data of objects stored in the plasma store. For now, the plasma store is a thread of the raylet process, failure of the raylet process will lose data which store in plasma. Some objects which only one copy in that failed plasma store,  will be unavailable.

### Proposed Design

We implement
#### Options to implement object HA with checkpoint

We implement object HA based on the checkpoint, so we can walk around **Problem 3: Loss of All Copies**,
previously discussed options: https://github.com/ray-project/enhancements/pull/10#issuecomment-1127719640

> We use highly available processes as global owners of checkpointed objects. Such highly available processes can be GCS or a group of named actors with `max_restarts=-1`. We reuse the existing ownership assignment RPCs to assign a checkpointed object to a global owner and encode the immutable info (an `owner_is_gcs` flag or the actor name) about the global owner into the owner address. The process to get an RPC client to the owner needs to be updated to be able to return a working RPC client to the up-to-date IP:port of the owner.

Reviewer: We also need to use high available storage instead of local disk?

Author: `Object Store HA` hope that if a single node fails, the data will not be lost, so it still needs to rely on external storage, like `s3`

> Note that we don't need to restore the reference table in global owners by pulling info from the cluster because objects are already checkpointed. Checkpoint info is stored in the reference table and it will be encoded when serializing an object ref, hence checkpoint info is recoverable. If borrowers detected owner failure, they will try to reconnect to the owner and the recovered owner will recover the reference count and borrower list via these new RPC connections.

Reviewer 2: Does this mean that the checkpoint location will be stored with the serialized ObjectRef? It makes sense, but if that is the idea, could you make that more explicit somewhere in the design? For example, how does the protocol for retrieving the object value change when using HA?

I'm also wondering if we can try a version where the application has to manually free the object. Then we don't need to worry about keeping track of the ref count at all. Would this meet your use cases?

Author: yes, we will store checkpoint_uri into ObjectRef, protocol is here: https://github.com/ray-project/enhancements/pull/10#discussion_r948825477. I will add to the REP later.

yes, In our prototype test, we do not recover the reference count after the owner restart, because the HA Object doesn't have a primary copy, and users need to release the checkpoint by themself.

Reviewer 3: In the current prototype, refs caused by borrowers are still recorded. We didn't simplify this. But if the global owner is recovered from failure, the reference count will become zero and direct borrowers will not re-report borrow info to the new owner process. In this case, the owner will not GC the object because it knows that the object is HA.

We did think about bypassing reference recording for HA objects. But for the simplicity of the prototype, we didn't implement this.

> Note that we don't need to restore the reference table in global owners by pulling info from the cluster because objects are already checkpointed. Checkpoint info is stored in the reference table and it will be encoded when serializing an object ref, hence checkpoint info is recoverable. If borrowers detected owner failure, they will try to reconnect to the owner and the recovered owner will recover the reference count and borrower list via these new RPC connections.

Reviewer: How does checkpointed object storage get GCed? Both under normal case and under failure?

Author: The GC of the checkpoint is handed over to the user to be responsible

We can add some strategies to help user management, such as deleting all checkpoints at the end of the job, if the cluster fails unexpectedly, we can only rely on external storage for its own life cycle management.

> Note that we don't need to restore the reference table in global owners by pulling info from the cluster because objects are already checkpointed. Checkpoint info is stored in the reference table and it will be encoded when serializing an object ref, hence checkpoint info is recoverable. If borrowers detected owner failure, they will try to reconnect to the owner and the recovered owner will recover the reference count and borrower list via these new RPC connections.

Author: The current design is quite simple:
1. Try to get the object locations from the `owner`, and then pull data directly from one of those locations
2. If 1 fails, try to restore the data from the checkpoint. The current implementation of the prototype is to directly use an `io_worker` to read data from the local disk, which is the same as the previous restore the spilled data.

> Note that we don't need to restore the reference table in global owners by pulling info from the cluster because objects are already checkpointed. Checkpoint info is stored in the reference table and it will be encoded when serializing an object ref, hence checkpoint info is recoverable. If borrowers detected owner failure, they will try to reconnect to the owner and the recovered owner will recover the reference count and borrower list via these new RPC connections.

Reviewer 3: > The current implementation of the prototype is to directly use an io_worker to read data from the local disk

to be clear, the test cases we added in the prototype use local disks. In real environments, we should use remote distributed storage.

- Pros
  - No major protocol changes compared to the existing ownership assignment protocol.
    - Low dev cost.
  - No owner address updates because the `owner_is_gcs` flag or the actor name is encoded in it.
    - Low dev cost.
- Cons
  - Centralized/semi-centralized architecture.
    - Potentially bottleneck.
    - Bad performance.
  - Corner case handling such as RPC failures.
    - Potentially high dev cost.

We prefer named actors rather than GCS as global owners.

- The number of global owners is configurable, hence scalable.
- No need to embed (part of) core worker code into GCS.
- No increased complexity for GCS.

#### API:

``` python
# Set the number of global owner (default is zero) and the number of HA object's primary copies (default is zero).
ray.init(
    job_config=ray.job_config.JobConfig(
        num_global_owners=16,
        num_primary_copies=3,
    )
)

# put a HA object. the default value of `enable_ha` is False.

> ray.put(value, enable_ha=True)

Reviewer 2: I think there are use cases for specifying the exact actor that should own the object. In workflows, for example, this could be the WorkflowManagementActor.

Author: This part is not very clear on the REP, the previous consideration was to hope that this interface should be as simple as possible, user only needs to config `GlobalOwner` on `JobConfig` (like the number of `GlobalOwner`):
``` python
ray.init(job_config=JobConfig(global_owner={"number": 16}))
ray.put("test", enable_ha=True)
```

Maybe we can provide an interface to initialize `GlobalOwner`:
``` python
ray.init()
### creat owner [o1, o2, o3]
...
###
# or ray.init_global_owner(number=16)
ray.init_global_owner(owners=[o1, o2, o3])
ray.put("test", enable_ha=True)

```

Author: cc @kfstorm

Reviewer 3: > I think there are use cases for specifying the exact actor that should own the object. In workflows, for example, this could be the WorkflowManagementActor.

Is there any reason that dummy actors as global owners don't work in workflows?

#### Problem 1: Object Owner Failure

The owner of an object stores the metadata of the object, such as reference count and locations of the object. If the owner dies, other workers which hold the object ref cannot access the data of the object anymore because all copies of the object will be deleted from the Object Store.

#### Problem 2: Object Borrower Failure

In the chained object borrowing case, the owner of an object is not aware of the indirect borrowers. If all direct borrower fails, the owner will consider the object out-of-scope and GC the object. Accessing the object on indirect borrowers will fail with an `ObjectLostError`.

more details: [issues 18456](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/issues/18456)

#### Problem 3: Loss of All Copies

Data of objects stored in the plasma store. For now, the plasma store is a thread of the raylet process, failure of the raylet process will lose data which store in plasma. Some objects which only one copy in that failed plasma store,  will be unavailable.

### Proposed Design

#### How to solve the object owner failure problem?

> **Global Owner**: A group of special Ray actors with `max_restarts=-1` will be created to own all objects of a job created by `ray.put` and the returned object (either from normal-task or actor-task). When one of the special actors fails, the restarted instance will rebuild the reference table based on information provided by Raylets and other non-special workers.

Author: I mentioned that in the description above:

```
`ray.put` and the returned object (either from normal-task or actor-task)
```

> **Global Owner**: A group of special Ray actors with `max_restarts=-1` will be created to own all objects of a job created by `ray.put` and the returned object (either from normal-task or actor-task). When one of the special actors fails, the restarted instance will rebuild the reference table based on information provided by Raylets and other non-special workers.

Reviewer 4: > A group of special Ray actors

I'm interested in what this means. Is it a new type of core worker (it doesn't seem like it makes sense to do this at the application level)? or should this type of logic go in GCS?

Author: I think it is a new type of CoreWorker(inherited from CoreWorker), add some rebuild logic when it restarts, etc.  In short, it will not be much different from the original CoreWorker.

1. Raylet will find out that `G` is dead through RPC disconnection.
2. When Raylet knows that `G` is restarted, Raylet sends the information below to `G`:
    - References of all objects which are owned by `G`. (Collected by traversing all local workers.)
    - Objects which are owned by `G` and are local (the data is in the local Object Store).
    - The spill URLs of locally spilled objects which are owned by `G`.
3. `G` will reconnect to the Raylet and the workers on it after receiving the above collected information from this Raylet.
4. `G` sets the state to `READY` after finished rebuilding reference table.
5. The reply callback of some RPCs (`WaitForObjectFree`) will not be called until the rebuilding state of `G` is set to `READY`.

**Note**:

- RPCs sent by other workers to `G` should be retried until the state of `G's` Actor becomes `Alive`.
- The reply callback of some RPCs will not be invoked until the rebuilding state of `G` is set to `READY`.

> We prefer __Option.2__, and due to the difficulty of implementation, we are more trend to choose the __active__ way to restore `G`

Reviewer 3: I'll add some notes here for the cons of the passive way.

* Raylets need to subscribe to the actor state notifications in order to know the new RPC address of a restarted actor and reconnect to it. To implement this, we need to add something similar to "actor manager" in core worker to Raylet. This is an additional coding effort.
* Raylets pushing collected information to the restarted actor v.s. the actor pulling information from Raylets is just like push-based v.s. pull-based resource reporting. This is what we've already discussed and we've concluded that pull-based resource reporting is easier to maintain and test. I believe this conclusion also applies to object reference and location reporting.

Author: I will add it to the doc's body.

#### How to solve the object borrower failure problem?

##### Star Topology

We use star topology instead of tree topology when the number of global owners is greater than zero to make sure the owner directly lends an object to other workers. As the illustration shows:

![image_1_star_topology](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/11995469/165585288-c6fc4ba4-efd6-42b5-935b-ea5979d0e735.png)

1. `Worker C` borrows `Object A` from `Worker B` as before, and adds `Worker C` to `Worker B's` borrowers list.
2. Send a sync RPC to `G`, and borrows `Object A` from `G` when `object A` deserializes in `Worker C`.
3. Send an async RPC to delete `Worker C` from borrowers on `Worker B`.

#### How to solve the loss of all copies problem?

##### Multiple Primary Copies

We make sure there are multiple (configurable) primary copies of the same object. We can create these additional copies asynchronously to reduce performance penalty, and creating another copy once the object is sealed.

#### API:

``` python
# Set the number of global owner (default is zero) and the number of HA object's primary copies (default is zero).
ray.init(
    job_config=ray.job_config.JobConfig(

>         global_owner_num=16,
>         primary_copies_num=3,

Reviewer 3: We should follow the style of `num_cpus` and `num_gpus`. So I suggest this:

```suggestion
        num_global_owners=16,
        num_primary_copies=3,
```

## Test Plan and Acceptance Criteria

We plan to use a Ray job to test the HA feature of the Object Store.

1. In a multi-node cluster, each node runs two types of actors: producer and consumer.
    - Each **producer** actor produces data and stores object refs at local. Adds or deletes objects according to a certain strategy for testing object GC.
    - Each **consumer** actor gets an actor handle of a producer actor via the actor name and borrow objects from the producer actor randomly through `ray.get`.
2. Adjust data scale according to parameters:
    - The size of an object.
    - The number of objects.
    - The capacity of the Object Store.

Acceptance criteria:

1. Performance degradation is acceptable when no process or node failures happen.
2. When a single worker process or Raylet fails, the test job can finish eventually.

## (Optional) Follow-on Work

- **Global Owner**: Automatically adjust the number of global owner according to the number of objects in the ray cluster.
- **Star Topology**: Change the synchronous RPC sent to `G` when deserializing on `Worker C` to asynchronous.

> - **Multiple Primary Copies**: Rebuild failed copies, keeping the number of copies unchanged.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Multiple Primary Copies**: Recreate new primary copies upon loss of any primary copy to meet the required number of primary copies.
- ```

Author: done
